JUDY WOODRUFF: Good evening.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
On the "NewsHour" tonight: less
than three
weeks to Election Day, how some
red-leaning
states have become unexpected
battlegrounds
and the impact that's having
down ballot.
And a Maryland man accused of
stealing a massive
amount of classified data from
the National
Security Agency was declared a
flight risk
today and is expected to be
charged with espionage.
Then, Mark Shields and David
Brooks analyze
this week full of election news.
Plus, Garrison Keillor hands
over the reins.
Musician Chris Thile reimagines
the classic
public radio variety show
"Prairie Home Companion"
for a younger audience and a new
era.
CHRIS THILE, Host, "A Prairie
Home Companion":
This show, as a place, has been
one of America's
most consistent sources of good
things for
40 years.
And I feel like it's imperative
that it continue.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All that and more
on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: The presidential
campaigns
focused on states most up for
grabs today,
with Republican Donald Trump
promising no
regrets in the remaining weeks
of his campaign.
It was a battle of the
battleground states
today
DONALD TRUMP (R), Presidential
Candidate:
In 18 days, we are going to win
North Carolina.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (D),
Presidential Candidate:
Hello, Cleveland!
JUDY WOODRUFF: Donald Trump
campaigned in
the Tar Heel State, where he
went after Hillary
Clinton for a paid speech she
made to a Brazilian
bank.
It was revealed through hacked
e-mails.
DONALD TRUMP: Speaking in secret
to a foreign
bank, Hillary Clinton said her
dream is for
totally open trade.
There goes your business.
And open borders.
There goes your country.
(BOOING)
DONALD TRUMP: Oh, we love
WikiLeaks.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Then he was off
to Pennsylvania
for two more rallies.
Clinton's battleground stop was
in neighboring
Ohio, in Cleveland.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: On
Wednesday night,
Donald Trump did something no
other presidential
nominee has ever done.
He refused to say that he would
respect the
results of this election.
(BOOING)
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: Now,
make no mistake.
By doing that, he is threatening
our democracy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Last night, the
rivals sat
practically side-by-side, at the
Alfred E.
Smith Dinner in New York.
The fund-raiser for Catholic
charities is
traditionally a place for
political roasts.
Neither candidate held their
punches, and
one was booed.
DONALD TRUMP: We have learned so
much from
WikiLeaks.
For example, Hillary believes
that it is vital
to deceive the people by having
one public
policy and a totally different
policy in private.
(BOOING)
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: Donald
wanted me drug
tested before last night's
debate.
(LAUGHTER)
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: And,
look, I got to
tell you, I am so flattered that
Donald thought
I used some sort of performance
enhancer.
(LAUGHTER)
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: Now,
actually I did.
It's called preparation.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The Clinton
campaign, out with
an ad featuring Khizr Khan, a
Muslim-American
whose son died while serving in
the U.S. Army
in Iraq.
KHIZR KHAN, Father of Killed
U.S. Soldier:
I want to ask Mr. Trump, would
my son have
a place in your America?
JUDY WOODRUFF: The ad will air
in key battleground
states.
In New Hampshire, where Trump is
lagging,
conservatives turned their focus
to the Senate.
NARRATOR: No matter who the next
president
is, New Hampshire needs a strong
voice in
the U.S. Senate.
That senator, Kelly Ayotte.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Ayotte faces a
difficult reelection
bid, and hers is one the tossup
seats that
could determine control of the
Senate in just
18 days.
We will hear more about those
down-ballot
U.S. Senate and House races
after the news
summary.
In the day's other news: Russia
extended a
pause in fighting in Aleppo,
Syria, for a
third day, to allow people to
receive aid,
that after the U.N. said planned
evacuations
of the rebel-held east were
halted, due to
a lack of security guarantees
from the warring
sides.
Meanwhile, addressing a meeting
in Geneva,
the U.N.'s High Commissioner for
Human Rights
again denounced Russian and
Syrian airstrikes.
ZEID BIN RA'AD ZEID AL-HUSSEIN,
United Nations
High Commissioner for Human
Rights: Indiscriminate
airstrikes across the eastern
part of the
city by government forces and
their allies
are responsible for the
overwhelming majority
of civilian casualties, and
these violations
constitute war crimes.
And if knowingly committed as
part of a widespread
or systematic attack directed
against civilians,
they constitute crimes against
humanity.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Separately, the
United Nations
set up a special inquiry today
to investigate
alleged human rights abuses in
Aleppo.
In Iraq, Islamic State militants
launched
attacks of their own today in
and around the
northern city of Kirkuk.
Suicide bombers stormed a power
plant, killing
13 workers, including four
Iranians.
Explosions and gunfire echoed
throughout that
area for hours.
The assault was apparently aimed
at diverting
Iraqi and Kurdish forces away
from their massive
offensive in the ISIS-held city
of Mosul.
A passenger train derailed in
the Central
African country of Cameroon
today, killing
at least 55 people and injuring
nearly 600
more.
Some 1,300 people were on board,
more than
twice the normal load.
First-responders struggled to
pull mud-soaked
victims from the wreckage.
Heavy rains had caused several
roads in the
area to collapse.
Back in this country, a series
of cyber-attacks
made dozens of popular Web sites
inaccessible
today, from Twitter to the music
streaming
site Spotify.
The hack targeted the New
Hampshire-based
Internet infrastructure provider
Dyn.
The attacks were launched from
devices infected
with malware from millions of
I.P. addresses
around the world.
The FBI is still working to
determine who's
behind the hack.
The president of the Philippines
has clarified
comments he made yesterday about
a -- quote
-- "separation" from the United
States.
Rodrigo Duterte says he's not
cutting ties
with the U.S., but rather meant
that the Philippines
-- quote -- "need not dovetail
the foreign
policy of America."
In Washington, White House
spokesman Josh
Earnest expressed concern about
the leader's
recent pronouncements.
JOSH EARNEST, White House Press
Secretary:
We have seen too many troubling
public statements
from President Duterte over the
last several
months.
And the frequency of that
rhetoric has added
an element of unnecessary
uncertainty into
our relationship that doesn't
advance the
interests of either country.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The U.S. and the
Philippines
have been allies for 70 years.
A U.S. Navy warship sailed near
disputed islands
in the South China Sea today,
drawing a stern
rebuke from China.
The USS Decatur drew close to
the Paracel
Islands, one of the territories
contested
by China and its neighbors,
before two Chinese
ships warned it to leave.
China's Defense Ministry called
the move illegal
and provocative.
And stocks were mixed on Wall
Street today.
The Dow Jones industrial average
lost 16 points
to close at 18145.
The Nasdaq rose 15 points, and
the S&P 500
slipped less than a point.
For the week, all three indexes
gained a fraction
of a percent.
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
the road
to the White House and the
likelihood Democrats
could take back the Senate; a
Maryland man
is expected to be charged with
espionage after
a massive data breach at the
National Security
Agency; Mark Shields and David
Brooks take
on the week's political news;
and much more.
We return to the presidential
election now
for a look at where the race
stands, what
each nominee's path to victory
is and how
down-ballot races are shaking
out this year.
We are joined by our own
correspondent Lisa
Desjardins and Nathan Gonzales.
He's editor of The Rothenberg &
Gonzales Political
Report and elections editor for
Roll Call.
And hello to both of you.
So, Nathan, let's start with
you.
The electoral vote map has
shifted a little.
Tell us what things look like
right now.
NATHAN GONZALES, The Rothenberg
& Gonzales
Political Report: Well,
Secretary Clinton
has had the advantage both in
the national
polls, the national vote, but
also in the
Electoral College for quite some
time.
But right now, she continues --
there are
a couple of states, Florida and
North Carolina,
that we just moved from tossup
to leaning,
tilting Democratic, and that
just adds to
the 270 electoral votes.
Right now, on our map, we have
over 323 electoral
votes.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Whoa.
NATHAN GONZALES: The two tossups
that are
remaining, I think, are Iowa and
Ohio.
And what is remarkable is, you
would have
told Republicans that you are
going to win
Ohio and you're even going to
win Iowa, a
President Obama that won twice,
I think they
would be ecstatic.
The bad news is Florida, North
Carolina, Wisconsin,
Nevada, all of these other
states are in poor
shape.
And there's kind of a soft
underbelly of some
traditionally Republican states
that Trump
is risking losing as well.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, Lisa, given
that, what
is Donald Trump's path forward?
LISA DESJARDINS: Don't you
wonder?
And this is the fun part.
This is where I get to say let's
look at the
map.
I think the best way to think of
it is that
he needs to win 64 more
electoral votes than
Mitt Romney did in 2012.
The simplest way to do that is
the big three
states.
That's Pennsylvania, Ohio and
Florida.
Problem there, Pennsylvania,
Donald Trump
has not won a poll in
Pennsylvania since June,
since before his convention.
So let's imagine that
Pennsylvania is off
the plate.
And let's also imagine this is
not -- we don't
know if this will happen -- that
Florida and
Ohio, for the sake of argument,
go Trump.
That's what he's hoping for in
his path to
victory.
What does he have to do then?
Well, look at the remaining
swing states we
have across the country.
Donald Trump now has to win two
or three of
these in order to become
president.
These are states like Colorado,
Wisconsin,
Michigan, Virginia?
What do they have in common?
As you just heard from Nathan,
they have all
been moving in Hillary Clinton's
direction
strongly.
Just Iowa remains really as a
swing state
in that group.
And, as Nathan said, Judy, he
has got problems
on home turf like Arizona,
places that are
moving away from him, and North
Carolina that
he needs to keep.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, Nathan,
confirming, those
are tough gets for Donald Trump,
aren't they?
NATHAN GONZALES: It is.
And I think it's important to
remember that
this was going to be tough for
any Republican
nominee, Marco Rubio or John
Kasich.
There were four tossups coming
into the election,
Ohio, Florida, Colorado, and
Virginia.
And once we saw Colorado and
Virginia moving
toward Hillary Clinton, that
means that it
had to be Pennsylvania or
another a big state.
And it's just not coming
together.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now, Lisa, you
have looked
at the polls and you have looked
at why it
is that Hillary Clinton has
moved up, and
I think it's interesting, these
results.
LISA DESJARDINS: Right.
I was wondering, what is going
on?
A lot of people might think, oh,
well, women
are shifting.
No, when you look at the polls
in these key
states that are moving the most,
it's actually
men who are changing.
When you look at polls out of
Nevada, for
example, Monmouth polls this
month vs. last
month show that men under 50
years old, they're
voting 53 percent for Hillary
Clinton right
now, but a month ago, 29
percent.
That's an unbelievable shift of
24 points
in a month.
And you see this in other states
and nationally.
And it seems men are moving away
from Donald
Trump right now.
JUDY WOODRUFF: It's just there
are stories
all over the map.
And, Nathan, let's talk about
the Senate seats.
Right now, it is very much in
Republican hands.
And Republicans seemed to be
holding on to
that majority up until recently,
but now with
this shift at the presidential
level, what's
happening?
NATHAN GONZALES: Sure.
Republicans -- well, Democrats
need to gain
four seats in order to get to
50.
Vice President Tim Kaine would
be the tie-breaker.
So, four is the magic number.
And I think, for most of the
cycle, Republican
candidates were remarkably
resilient, based
on Donald Trump being at the top
of the ticket.
But then there was the "Access
Hollywood"
tape, the second debate, and now
we have seen
a steep decline in Trump's
numbers.
And the presidential race has
always had an
impact on Senate races, but, as
his hole gets
deeper, that increases the
number of ticket-splitters
that these Republicans need in
order to survive.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, Lisa, talk
about how then
exactly the Democrats' chances
look for taking
over the Senate.
LISA DESJARDINS: Yet again,
let's go to the
map.
I love it.
This is a case where again
Republicans walked
in with a disadvantage.
And this is why, because, if you
look at all
the seats that are tossups this
year, depending
on how you count them, maybe
about eight of
them we will put on this map,
the vast majority
of them are red, they are held
by Republicans.
There is one, Nevada, that
Democrats are defending.
Now, if you take these seats, it
seems the
most vulnerable for Republicans
are two, Wisconsin
and Illinois.
So let's imagine that they do go
Democratic.
That's two of the four that
Nathan says that
Democrats need.
Then we have got six these
remaining swing
states that, of those, Democrats
need to win
three.
So, is that maybe a win in
Pennsylvania and
New Hampshire, where Kelly
Ayotte, who was
doing well and now is having a
problem?
Same thing in Pennsylvania,
where we see the
incumbent Senator Toomey is also
having a
problem.
They were outperforming Trump a
month ago.
Now they're on the ropes.
And Democrats need to just pick
up three of
this group of six swing Senate
seats.
So, it's getting more and more
within their
reach.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, Nathan, if
things look
a little better for the
Democrats in the Senate,
what about the House?
That's been a reach.
What does it look like now?
NATHAN GONZALES: Democrats have
always had
a tough reach in the House.
They need 30 seats to gain 30
seats.
Now, 30 out of 435 doesn't sound
like very
many, but 30, when only about 40
are competitive,
is tough.
They basically have to run the
table.
And, so far, we haven't seen a
uniform drop
in Republican candidate support
across the
country.
There are vulnerable districts
out there,
but I think the margin is
probably closer
to 10, 15 seats, 20 seats,
rather than 30,
because Trump is getting
destroyed in the
suburbs.
He is causing some suburban
Republican incumbents
to be vulnerable in the suburbs.
But Trump is actually going well
in a place
like rural Michigan, Michigan's
1st District,
a seat Democrats have to win,
but Trump's
performance is actually helping
Republicans
keep that seat.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, Republicans
losing some
seats, but not anywhere near
enough to lose
the majority?
NATHAN GONZALES: Right now, it
doesn't look
like the majority is in danger.
But two weeks can be a lot of
time, and these
House races are the latest ones
to develop.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Two-and-a-half
weeks to go.
Nathan Gonzales, Lisa
Desjardins, thank you.
NATHAN GONZALES: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Next: A judge
ruled today that
a Maryland man accused of
stealing massive
amounts of information from the
National Security
Agency was a flight risk and
will remain in
federal custody.
William Brangham has the story.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: This past
August, Harold
Martin III was arrested at his
home in the
Maryland suburbs of Washington,
D.C.
In his house, investigators
discovered the
equivalent of half-a-billion
pages of documents
and electronic data, some
allegedly taken
from the NSA's headquarters at
nearby Fort
Meade.
Among the documents were ones
marked top-secret
and also tools used by the NSA
to hack into
the computer networks of foreign
governments.
Joining me now for more on this
case is Matt
Apuzzo, who's been covering this
story for
The New York Times.
Matt Apuzzo, welcome.
I wonder if you would just start
off by laying
out the case against this
gentleman, and what
is his defense?
MATT APUZZO, The New York Times:
Well, I mean,
what is fascinating is there is
the case that's
been brought.
And the case that's been
brought, as you said,
is, hey, this guy had terabytes,
billions
of pages of documents in his
house, in his
shed, in the back seat of his
car, in the
trunk of his car, and,
obviously, you're not
supposed to do that.
So, there is that case.
But then there is this other
case that's kind
of looming over all this, and
the question
is, is he the guy who, not too
long ago, facilitated
the release of NSA documents,
basically for
ransom, put them up for sale
online?
These were hacking tools, the
way the government,
the United States government,
hacks into other
countries and businesses and
whatnot?
And so that's really what's
going on here,
is, there's, OK, he mishandled
classified
information.
He has basically admitted that.
But is he the guy, is he part of
some network
that's putting information up
for sale?
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: So, this
originally came
about, as you're indicating,
there was this
group called the Shadow Brokers
who were auctioning
off this software.
MATT APUZZO: Right.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: And is it
correct that investigators
who were looking into that
release and that
case, that's how they discovered
Martin?
MATT APUZZO: Yes.
What we're told here is that
Martin sort of
popped up on their radar screen
during the
early parts of the investigation
into the
Shadow Brokers' release, and
using some clever
forensics and sort of
old-fashioned investigative
skills, were able to identify
Martin.
And then when they raided his
house, I think
they were stunned to find as
much stuff as
they found.
We're talking about 20 years of
classified
information.
It's basically a catalogue of
how the NSA
has stored data over the past
two decades.
He has got stuff in paper.
He has got stuff on C.D.s.
He has got stuff on thumb
drives.
He has got stuff.
It just tells a story, and it's
a little archive
of the NSA.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: And what is
Martin's defense
for all this?
What does he say?
MATT APUZZO: Well, we haven't
heard a full
defense.
Our understanding of what he's
told the FBI
is he acknowledges that he took
the stuff
and he wasn't supposed to take
it, but there
seems to be a little bit of,
well, I was taking
this stuff home to study it to
become better
at my job, to become a better
patriot, to
be a better NSA contractor.
Unlike somebody like Edward
Snowden, who had,
you know, a privacy, a
libertarian bent, what
we're hearing about Harold
Martin is that
he was very rah-rah for the NSA
and for the
government's programs and
believed that he
was a patriot.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: So, has the
government indicated
at all what they think his
motive might be
for this?
Why would he have these tools in
his house?
MATT APUZZO: No, it's a great
question.
And more so than why did he have
these tools
in the house, if he's been doing
it 20 years,
why would he start now, like --
and why would
he start with documents?
These are questions that are at
the heart
of the case.
And I think if the government
knew that in
a really big way, we would have
seen it in
the court documents.
We might have seen it in court.
And so what you're hearing now
is, I think,
a lot of federal investigators
scratching
their head and saying, we know
we have got
a big case here and we know
there's a lot
of smoke, but can we prove it?
Can we prove that -- can we link
him to these
leaked documents, can we link
him to some
other -- to a foreign
intelligence service?
And so far, that hasn't
materialized in a
provable way.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: More broadly,
can we just
talk a little bit about how
damaging this
might be for the NSA?
This is the second instance
where an NSA contractor
has walked out the door with
truckloads of
incredibly valuable data.
What is the impact on the NSA
from this kind
of a thing?
MATT APUZZO: Sure.
I think one of the things, the
damage assessment,
the risk assessment is going on.
And one of the questions they
are going to
have to face is, if they can't
figure out
if any of the data has been
compromised, do
they have to assume that it's
all been compromised?
And does that mean you have to
start shutting
down programs or whatnot?
But from a practical standpoint,
yes, it really
just does boggle the mind that
you can, for
20 years, just walk out of the
building with
papers and thumb drives and
C.D.s and whatnot.
It certainly does make you
wonder how that
happens.
And you can bet that that's
going to be something
that they are going to be
looking awful hard
at.
And after Edward Snowden, too,
that we're
still having this discussion, it
kind of does
boggle the mind.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: All right.
It's a case we will obviously
keep watching
as it goes forward.
Matt Apuzzo of The New York
Times, thanks
so much.
MATT APUZZO: Thanks for having
me.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Stay with us.
Coming up on the "NewsHour": the
growing burden
of student debt; and a new,
younger sound
for the radio variety show "A
Prairie Home
Companion."
But, first, for the second time
this week,
we get the analysis of Shields
and Brooks.
That's syndicated columnist Mark
Shields,
and New York Times columnist
David Brooks,
who's joining us tonight from
Houston.
And it's so exciting.
We get to see you twice this
week.
MARK SHIELDS: Right.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The first time,
Mark, of course
was after Wednesday night's
debate, the final
debate between these
presidential candidates.
What has changed since then?
MARK SHIELDS: I think the third
debate, Judy,
I think there was an awareness
Donald Trump
is not an unintelligent man.
And he understood, I think, two
things after
the debates, A, that Hillary
Clinton had beaten
him in three debates.
She was better prepared.
She outflanked him tactically.
She got him to go for the bait
on things like
choked when meeting with the
president of
Mexico.
And also there has to be the
understanding
that this was -- because he was
trailing,
has been trailing in the polls,
this was the
last great chance where two
campaigns collide,
they're on the same stage, he
could challenge,
change the terms of the debate.
He didn't.
And he, I think, almost as a
consolation,
has tried to divert the debate
that he's losing
to a discussion, I mean, a
reckless and dangerous
discussion, about the legitimacy
of the American
elections, something that's
never been challenged
before by any major party
candidate.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Where do you see
things right
now, David?
DAVID BROOKS: Yes, I do think
there is an
acceptance, I don't know if in
Donald Trump's
brain, but certainly in the
Republican Party,
about the fact that he's going
to lose, or
the likelihood that he's going
to lose.
And the question becomes, how do
people react
to that?
Two weeks ago, I was in Idaho,
and I ran into
a guy who said, well, obviously
Trump is going
to win because everybody I know
is voting
for him.
And I tried to persuade -- argue
with this
guy, well, if you look at the
polls, he is
actually not leading.
And this guy just wouldn't
accept that.
That was not part of his lived
reality.
And you got the sense a guy like
that, if
Trump does lose, will be very
angry and disbelieving
and may be sensitive to the idea
that the
election was rigged.
Yesterday, I was in Mississippi.
And there, there was a quietude,
a passivity.
I don't know all the stages of
grief, but
acceptance is one of them.
And there was a level of
acceptance in a lot
of the folks I spoke to there.
I suspect that the latter group
is the larger
part and that, even if he does
protest the
election in some way, there will
be some acceptance
that he lost fair and square.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Mark, how much
fallout is there
over Trump's unwillingness to
say that he
will accept the results of the
election, whatever
they are?
MARK SHIELDS: Well, I think,
first of all,
Judy, it puts other Republican
candidates
in a terrible position.
I mean, you have noticed the
parade, the cavalcade
of Republicans attesting to
their belief in
the ballot box, the belief in
legitimacy and
validity of American elections.
Republicans are on the ballot on
November
8.
They're going to win or lose by
100 votes
or 200 votes in some cases.
Do they want the legitimacy of
that election
tested?
So, I think, in that sense --
but just enlarging
upon what David -- the point
David made, it's
not restricted to the Trump
people who don't
believe.
There are Democrats who don't
believe that
-- there is a cleavage and a
divide in this
country like I have never seen
before.
If you're on the other side from
me, you're
not simply wrong or ill-informed
or mistaken.
We don't share the same country,
the same
values.
You may not be the same kind of
an American
I am.
I think it's really dangerous
and it's an
enormous challenge for the next
president.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, David, you're
seeing that
out there on the trail, if you
will, where
you have been traveling around
the country.
I want to ask you, though, about
Trump's continued,
I don't know -- how do you
describe the state
he's in?
He goes to the Al Smith Dinner
in New York
City last night.
This gets a lot of coverage
today, where he
-- instead of doing the sort of
self-deprecating
jokes that people traditionally
do, he really
continues to go hard after
Hillary Clinton.
Does it matter at this point
that he's still
angry?
DAVID BROOKS: Well, angry is
what he does.
I have to say, I read all the
coverage, expecting
to be appalled by his speech and
cheered by
Clinton's.
I thought they were both pretty
bad.
I thought they were both a
little too harsh.
His was worse, but hers wasn't
funny or particularly
well-delivered.
So, it's going to be a dreary
couple of years
of comedy acts, no matter who is
elected.
I do think that his attacks, the
line that
she hates Catholics, is just
tone-deaf and
it's just inner bitterness that
is coming
to the surface in unattractive
ways.
And I do think, starting with
the -- not only
starting, but continuing with
the claim that
he won't accept the --
automatically the results
of the election does
fundamentally undermine
the etiquette we have built up
in our society.
Our system is not only based on
rules, but
a series of self-restraints that
we won't
be as barbaric as we could be in
competing
for power because we know if
we're all barbaric
as we could be, the whole
country and the
whole society falls apart.
And my critique with
conservatives who say,
well, I really hate the guy, but
I need to
vote for him because of the
Supreme Court,
the problem is that the moral
foundation of
the society, the way we interact
with each
other is more fundamental than
the Supreme
Court.
And if that gets polluted and
that gets destroyed
by somebody who's just
brutalistic and savage,
then it doesn't matter who's on
the Supreme
Court because we have lost our
country.
And so I think their argument
that the Supreme
Court is worth it is basically
the wrong argument
when he's behaving this way.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Pick up on that,
Mark.
MARK SHIELDS: Sure.
No, the Al Smith Dinner, first
of all, it's
a marvelous occasion.
It's really where people,
candidates do come.
And, Judy, you have covered
enough campaigns.
One of the first things every
press secretary
assures you is, the boss has a
wonderful sense
of humor, because not to have a
sense of humor
is considered flagrantly
un-American.
And I remember George W. Bush at
that dinner
in 2000 standing up and saying,
look at this
audience, designer dresses and
white tie and
tails, the haves and the
have-mores.
Some people call you the elite.
I call you my base.
So, he was laughing at himself
that he was
the candidate of the well-off or
whatever
else.
And I think Trump just missed
this completely.
But I agree with David that
there was too
much of an edge even in
Clinton's remarks.
But Trump just missed the whole
thing, and
it was -- it's a tone-deafness
that's -- it's
unsettling.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, let's talk
a little bit,
Mark and David, about what
Hillary Clinton
is saying out on the trail.
She isn't hitting as many
campaign stops as
he is, but, David, we see today
she is talking
to voters about -- she is saying
things like,
think about the future of the
country.
What sort of future do you want,
what sort
of country do you want?
She said at one point, you live
your life.
I will do the worrying.
Does it sound like she's already
winding this
thing down?
DAVID BROOKS: Well, there is a
lot of let's
go for the landslide talk out of
the Democratic
Party, which a normal -- the
normal rules
of campaigning, that's a no-no.
You want your people to come
out.
You don't want them to think,
oh, we got this
one in the bag.
And so they may be trying to run
up the score
just to renounce the whole idea
of the Trump
idea.
I get that.
But it's come out in the
WikiLeaks.
And it's been evident.
And Mark and I have been talking
about it
at each debate.
It's not clear to people outside
the campaign
and even, as we learned from
WikiLeaks, inside
the campaign, what the core
passion is.
What are -- the core, animating
thing that
she would go to the mat for?
And I still think that's true.
And in her rallies this week,
it's still evident
that she doesn't have a core
rally, except
for denying Donald Trump -- a
core passion,
except denying Donald Trump the
presidency.
I hope she finishes with
something, because,
in the likelihood that she wins,
something
to coast off of to sort of give
herself a
sense of priorities for the next
few months
and then the first 100 days.
JUDY WOODRUFF: You know, Mark,
that's a critique
that you and David have been
making for some
time.
MARK SHIELDS: Repetitively.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Competitively.
You have been making it
repetitively, competitively.
MARK SHIELDS: I have anyway.
David makes it freshly.
(LAUGHTER)
JUDY WOODRUFF: But some version
of it, you
both have been critical of her
for not having
a theme to her campaign.
Do you just at this point assume
we're not
going to hear it, or...
MARK SHIELDS: Yes, I don't think
it's there.
I don't think the lift of a
driving dream
or whatever, the Obama lift, the
Reagan lift,
I just don't -- I don't think
it's there.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Stronger together
doesn't...
MARK SHIELDS: Stronger together
is, I think,
a preposition and a comparative
adjective,
but it's not really an action
verb or what
it is.
I do think it makes sense for
the Democrats
to -- that Trump has done a
favor for them
as far as turnout, because there
isn't that
kind of enthusiasm and passion
for her candidacy.
And by his question of
legitimacy, the idea
that your vote does count, that
it does matter,
because, if it's close, he's
going to raise
questions about it.
So I think, in a strange way,
he's become
the turnout agent for Democratic
voting on
November 8 by his questioning of
the legitimacy
and saying he's going to
challenge whether
-- the constitutionality of the
vote.
So I think, in that sense, it
works.
But I don't think we're going to
get that
-- not going to take us to the
top of the
mountain.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, is he doing
her that favor?
(CROSSTALK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: Go ahead.
Go ahead, David.
DAVID BROOKS: Yes, I would say I
ran into
a guy in Louisiana, in New
Orleans, because
I'm going to the fun places,
too.
And he said he was going to vote
for neither
of the candidates, just because
he was so
appalled, until that Trump
reference to not
respecting the election results.
And then he decided to go for
Clinton, because
he said, listen, this guy's got
to lose badly.
We have got to at least defend
that principle.
And so I do think that what he
said sort of
over -- did overshadow
everything he said
in the debate and will drive up
some of Clinton's
margins potentially.
JUDY WOODRUFF: There is so much
talk in this
country about how divided the
country is still
going to be, Mark, after this
election.
Is there anything these
candidates can do,
either the candidates at the top
of the ticket,
Paul Ryan, or any of the other
candidates
can do to begin to address that,
or do you
just wait until the election is
over and hope
it works out?
MARK SHIELDS: You hope that
there will be
a sense of resolution.
I think Democrats ought to be
concerned, Judy,
that the party, in this
election, has become
almost prideful about the
college-educated
vote that it's getting, the
support that Hillary
Clinton is getting against
Donald Trump.
And, understandably, white
working-class voters
or working-class voters have
felt abandoned,
have felt, in many senses,
disparaged by the
political leadership of the
country.
And they have been the core
historically of
the Democratic Party, whether
it's Norma Rae
or Joe Hill or the great stories
of fighting
for the underdog.
And I think the Democrats, I
would hope that
Hillary Clinton and the
Democratic leadership
wouldn't be quite as smug about
saying, oh,
we have got the
college-educated, aren't we
something, and understand that
the anger and
the sense of outrage and hurt
that these people
are feeling, many of whom are
supporting Donald
Trump, is legitimate and real.
And they feel abandoned by the
Democratic
Party, by Washington and
certainly hurt by
Wall Street.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, David, no
matter what the
outcome, the Democrats are due
for some soul-searching,
along with the Republicans?
DAVID BROOKS: Well, everybody.
I mean, I certainly hear a lot
of people say
that Trump not only incited some
bad things.
He also exposed some things.
He exposed pain in the country
that a lot
of us didn't have the full
extent of, some
of the divisions and chasms in
the country.
And so that's been an education
which Donald
Trump has given us, to his
credit.
And, secondly -- and maybe it's
just what
people say to me, but I hear a
lot of desire
for a snap-back, that we have
had so much
vulgarity, so much throwing away
of any standards
of decency, that there has been
a lot of people
coming forward and say, no,
let's -- on matters
of how we talk to each other, on
matters how
we respect each other and relate
to each other,
let's not only stop doing this,
let's snap
back and address the problems
that we have
all been suffering under during
this election
campaign.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Wouldn't that be
a welcome
thing?
MARK SHIELDS: Well, David, the
coarsening
of the culture didn't begin with
Donald Trump.
He's accelerated it, but it did
not -- we
have coarsened our country over
the last generation.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Mark Shields,
David Brooks,
thank you both.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Mark Shields,
David Brooks,
thank you both.
Student debt has been a big
talking point
on the 2016 campaign trail.
Hillary Clinton proposes making
tuition free
for many students at public
colleges.
Donald Trump would expand limits
on how much
borrowers have to pay back each
month.
But what about those already
holding debt?
We take a look as part of our
series How the
Deck Is Stacked, funded by the
Corporation
for Public Broadcasting, in
partnership with
"Frontline" and Marketplace.
Marketplace's Lizzie O'Leary has
the first
of two stories.
LIZZIE O'LEARY, Marketplace: If
everything
had gone according to plan,
Chris Savelle
would be on Wall Street right
now, not biking
through downtown Detroit in a
free weekly
community ride.
Savelle, who is 31, graduated
into the teeth
of the recession.
He's got $100,000 in student
loan debt on
his mind.
What does $100,000 feel like?
CHRIS SAVELLE, Owes Student
Debt: It sucks.
LIZZIE O'LEARY: Jessica Love
Jordan is in
a similar situation.
She started college late and is
now working
on finishing her master's in
addiction counseling.
She juggles school, work and
being a single
parent.
Sometimes, the debt feels too
much.
JESSICA LOVE JORDAN, Owes
Student Debt: Now
and again, when I look at the
statement, and
see how much I actually have to
pay back,
it's almost suffocating.
I have those fleeing thoughts,
you know what,
let me just stop now, and go
work, so I can
be able to live later on in
life.
LIZZIE O'LEARY: When she
graduates, she can
expect to make about $33,000
annually as an
addiction counselor.
Her debt will be about $90,000.
The median student debt is much
lower than
Savelle or Love Jordan's, about
$27,000.
But their experiences are
similar to those
of many students who attended
state universities
at a time when their budgets
were being cut,
and as the great recession hit.
The money for school had to come
from somewhere,
in most cases, students.
Where did you think you would be
in your life
at 31?
CHRIS SAVELLE: Go work for an
investment firm
or hedge fund, Chicago, New
York, something
like that.
LIZZIE O'LEARY: But when Savelle
graduated
in 2008, the best job he could
find was at
a local Wal-Mart.
He's recovered somewhat now.
He works as a supply chain
engineer, and supports
his mother and sister.
Temple University Professor Sara
Goldrick-Rab
has been researching the rising
price of college
for years.
How has the aid picture changed
as median
incomes have stagnated, really,
for the last
20 years?
SARA GOLDRICK-RAB, Temple
University: The
sticker price on a per student
basis has gone
up a lot, while the amount of
financial aid
on a per student basis has gone
down.
So, the result is that the net
price, the
amount that the families
actually pay out
of their pocket, is rising, and
it's rising
fairly rapidly.
LIZZIE O'LEARY: More than 40
million Americans
have student loan debt.
The total amount is around $1.3
trillion.
Even so, there are experts like
Sandy Baum,
who studies student debt at the
Urban Institute,
and says only certain people are
being hurt.
SANDY BAUM, Urban Institute:
Student debt
is a crisis for some people, but
student debt
is not the generalized crisis
that the common
discourse would make it appear.
Yes, people are paying more of
their incomes
for a college education, but
still it's worth
it for most people.
It's still a very good
investment for most
people, but not for everyone.
LIZZIE O'LEARY: Sara
Goldrick-Rab says far
too many people are being
saddled with substantial
debt.
You wrote that debt is a
symptom, not the
disease.
It sounds like you think the
disease is the
high price.
SARA GOLDRICK-RAB: The disease
is the price.
And we have a problem, where
people are being
priced out of college, and in
their effort
to not be priced out, they're
taking on debt
that, frankly, they're going to
have real
trouble repaying.
LIZZIE O'LEARY: People like
Jordan Hoeft.
He's been trying to get a more
manageable
payment plan.
He studied film, but couldn't
get a job in
the industry.
He now owes $100,000 in private
student loans,
but was paying interest only
until recently.
He lives at home in the Chicago
suburbs with
his parents.
They already were tapped out
after helping
his siblings with loans.
So Jordan's parents asked his
grandparents
to co-sign.
And when his debt piled up, the
loan servicer
came calling.
MELODI HOEFT, Mother of Jordan
Hoeft: My father
co-signed for some of the kids'
loans after
Patrick and I were tapped out on
signing,
co-signing for them.
My father passed away, and
within 60 days
of my dad passing away, the
private student
loan venders were calling my
mom, harassing
her, wanting her to pay the
balance in full.
LIZZIE O'LEARY: The whole thing?
MELODI HOEFT: The whole balance,
and that
he -- they were not in arrears
at all.
My mom called me crying, saying,
"I don't
have that money and they want me
to pay this
loan."
And I said, oh, no.
LIZZIE O'LEARY: She must have
been terrified?
MELODI HOEFT: She was
hysterical.
LIZZIE O'LEARY: Jordan Hoeft's
loans are serviced
by Navient, which spun off from
Sallie Mae,
and now owns its student debt
business.
It is one of the nation's
largest student
debt servicers.
The company handles both private
and federal
loans.
Hoeft's loans are private, not
federal, and
had a high interest rate.
JORDAN HOEFT, Owes Student Debt:
So, I told
them, almost as a joke, I said,
I can either
have you guys lower my payments,
so I can
make rent, and then pay you, or
I can live
in my truck and make the full
payments to
you every month.
And the woman on the phone, dead
serious,
told me, "I don't want to tell
you to have
to live in your truck, but you
might have
to live in your truck."
LIZZIE O'LEARY: We asked Navient
about that
phone call, and they told us --
quote -- "Our
representative sympathizes with
Mr. Hoeft,
and the two establish a rapport
in which she
dismisses his facetious comment
that he may
need to live in his car.
Our representative didn't urge
him to live
in his car.
Rather, she encourages him to
consider a practical
option, such as finding a
roommate to split
expenses."
Jordan and his mother decided to
do something
about how they were being
treated by their
servicer and reached out to
their state's
top law enforcement officer.
LISA MADIGAN, Illinois Attorney
General: I
have seen an increasing number
of fraud complaints
from current and former higher
education students.
LIZZIE O'LEARY: Lisa Madigan is
the attorney
general for Illinois.
After noticing a rise in
complaints against
companies involved in higher
education, Madigan
filed lawsuits against several
for-profit
schools.
Now she is leading a multistate
investigation
into Navient.
Why did you decide to look at
Navient?
LISA MADIGAN: It was the volume
of complaints
that we received and the serious
nature of
them.
We have looked at over 5,000
complaints, we
have listened to over 800 phone
calls, and
we have been able to determine
that, time
and time again, the servicers
are not providing
borrowers with their repayment
options.
LIZZIE O'LEARY: The majority of
student loans
are federal and originate with
the Department
of Education, but they're
contracted out to
a handful of companies who
manage the payments.
It's a $140 billion industry
annually, and
servicers, like Navient, make
about $2 billion
in commission per year.
LISA MADIGAN: Most of the time,
what they
do if someone is struggling is,
they will
put them into a forbearance,
which is not
necessarily going to be the best
thing for
that borrower in the long run,
certainly not
going to make that debt any more
manageable.
In fact, it will often tend to
grow that debt.
LIZZIE O'LEARY: There are
several ways to
reduce monthly payments.
Deferment or forbearance
temporarily postpones
payments, but interest may
continue to accrue
while payments are on hold.
For federal loans, there are
several income-based
repayment options, where a
borrower pays a
portion of their discretionary
income, from
10 percent down to zero if
they're unemployed.
Madigan thinks servicers are
pushing borrowers
into forbearance.
LISA MADIGAN: Unfortunately, the
way it ends
up working out is, it's good for
the servicer,
because they're incentivized
through their
compensation to get people
through the process,
but it is bad for the borrower,
which is ultimately
bad for that person's family and
bad for our
overall economy.
LIZZIE O'LEARY: Navient declined
to comment
directly on Madigan's
investigation and instead
sent this statement: "Navient is
a leader
in enrolling eligible borrowers
into income-driven
repayment programs.
We have been strong advocates
for streamlining
the enrollment process to make
it easier for
borrowers."
"PBS NewsHour" requested an
interview with
the Department of Education.
It declined.
The department pointed us to
this policy memo
suggesting servicers provide
better information
to borrowers, but any changes,
if approved,
wouldn't take effect until 2019.
Borrowers like Jordan Hoeft may
never see
any changes.
Seth Frotman of the Consumer
Finance Protection
Bureau says his agency is
tracking complaints.
The agency has started
monitoring many key
financial players, including
loan service
companies.
SETH FROTMAN, Consumer Finance
Protection
Bureau: And there's an amazing
government
audit that found that 70 percent
of federal
student loan borrowers in
default, so have
defaulted on their loans, were
actually eligible
for an income-generated payment
plan as low
as zero dollars.
I think that's an abysmal
failure.
And I think that's a direct
implication of
student loan servicers and the
oversight over
student loan servicers.
LIZZIE O'LEARY: The borrowers
most likely
to default?
Those with $10,000 or less in
student loans.
They have lower debt, but are
less likely
to have completed their degrees
and may have
lower earnings.
Chris Savelle's debt has
affected his little
sister's future as well.
If it weren't for Chris' debt,
do you think
Katie would be in a four-year
school now?
JAN SAVELLE, Mother of Chris
Savelle: I think
she would.
I think if she could see that
she could get
an education without having a
lifetime of
crushing debt, I think she
would.
LIZZIE O'LEARY: The legacy of
Chris Savelle's
debt will be with him, his
sister and his
whole generation long after it's
paid.
For the "PBS NewsHour," this is
Lizzie O'Leary
in Detroit
JUDY WOODRUFF: In our next
piece, the impact
of debt on some students at
for-profit schools.
And, online, we look at which
student loan
companies accrue the most
complaints by borrowers.
And, online, we look at which
student loan
companies accrue the most
complaints by borrowers.
You can imagine it is not easy
to step in
and take over a popular
broadcast show, especially
one that was hosted for more
than 40 years
by its creator and stamped with
his personality.
But as the new season kicks in
for one of
public radio's longtime
favorites, Jeffrey
Brown has the story of how a new
host is trying
to put his own spin on it.
CHRIS THILE, Host, "A Prairie
Home Companion":
You know, I suspect we're going
to have some
fun this evening.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
JEFFREY BROWN: The new "Prairie
Home Companion,"
still at the beautiful
Fitzgerald Theater
in downtown St. Paul, Minnesota,
still a two-hour
variety show presented live on
public radio,
but now led by 35-year-old Chris
Thile.
CHRIS THILE: I'm obsessed with
the good things
that people make to give to one
another.
This show is a place, has been
one of America's
most consistent sources of good
things for
40 years.
And I feel like it's imperative
that it continue.
JEFFREY BROWN: Since its
founding in 1974,
of course, "Prairie Home
Companion" has been
synonymous with one man,
Garrison Keillor.
He hosted it, wrote it, embodied
it with a
sense of the people and place he
knew in his
bones.
GARRISON KEILLOR, Host, "A
Prairie Home Companion":
That's the news from Lake
Wobegon, where all
the women are strong, all the
men are good-looking.
JEFFREY BROWN: Two years ago on
this very
stage, Keillor told me of the
magic of radio
and storytelling.
GARRISON KEILLOR: I think
there's -- there's
a lot of power in listening to
one person
talking to you.
And -- and this should never be
underestimated.
JEFFREY BROWN: It was Keillor
who hand-picked
his successor, one who'd been
performing on
the show since age 15 and had
listened to
it even earlier.
CHRIS THILE: Some of my earliest
memories
are of hearing Garrison
Keillor's voice in
our living room, at a point when
I...
JEFFREY BROWN: Really?
CHRIS THILE: Yes, when I
couldn't even tell
the difference between his voice
and my father's
voice.
It's like an authoritative --
this authoritative,
paternal sound coming from the
radio.
JEFFREY BROWN: Chris Thile, who
grew up in
Southern California, was a child
prodigy on
the mandolin.
With groups like Nickel Creek
and the Punch
Brothers, he grew into a leader
of a new generation
of bluegrass-based,
genre-bending musicians.
He can seemingly do anything
with his instrument.
I first spoke to Thile three
years ago when
he recorded an album of Bach
Partitas.
CHRIS THILE: The fugal pieces
where they're
all about precision, and these
second voices
come in and then there's a third
voice.
JEFFREY BROWN: Musician, band
leader, showman,
and now host of a program that's
lost listeners
in recent years, but still
reaches some three-and-a-half
million.
We watched rehearsal the day
before the first
live show.
During a break, Thile spoke of
the challenge
of bringing in new and younger
viewers, while
replacing Garrison Keillor.
CHRIS THILE: I believe strongly
that quality
is not a generationally
exclusive thing, that
when you get to a certain level
of goodness,
it will appeal to everyone.
I think there will necessarily
be people who
wanted exactly what Garrison was
delivering
and don't want anything else.
I have to...
JEFFREY BROWN: You may lose some
people.
CHRIS THILE: I have to let them
go...
JEFFREY BROWN: Yes.
CHRIS THILE: ... because they
will be just
as dissatisfied with my best
imitation of
Garrison Keillor's delivery of
the show as
they will be with whatever I
would like to
do with it.
But I also really think that
they will be
in the minority.
And now another exciting episode
of Detective
Miller, phone cop.
JEFFREY BROWN: The new news from
Lake Wobegon?
It's gone, as are some of the
show's regular
storylines.
But actor Tim Russell has stayed
on and now
works with new writers.
I asked what we might expect,
and he went
right into character.
TIM RUSSELL, Actor: Well, I must
tell you,
Chris -- I mean Jeffrey.
I'm sorry.
I'm not good with names, OK?
There might be a little
political stuff.
I don't know.
You could ask Bernie Sanders,
but one-tenth
of what we do will maybe be
comedic.
What this public radio station
needs is a
membership revolution.
JEFFREY BROWN: Bernie Sanders
and Donald Trump
did make it into one skit.
TIM RUSSELL: It's true.
It's true.
Only I can make public radio
great again.
OK?
(LAUGHTER)
JEFFREY BROWN: But the humor is
still more
Saturday evening Minnesota than
"Saturday
Night Live."
The nasty political season did
come up in
a song about autumn that Thile
wrote.
Instead of a Keillor-like
opening monologue,
he plans to begin each show with
an original
tune.
He also plans to shake up the
musical offerings
a bit, which is just fine by
longtime bandleader
Rich Dworsky, who started at
"Prairie Home"
23 years ago and will stay on.
RICH DWORSKY, Band Leader, "A
Prairie Home
Companion": Chris is 35 years
old, so he knows
a different set of music.
He knows different cultural
references.
So, everything is going to be
maybe a little
bit younger and hipper and
edgier, you know,
like the kids are today.
(LAUGHTER)
JEFFREY BROWN: Like those kids
are.
RICH DWORSKY: And now I'm the
old guy.
JEFFREY BROWN: For week one, the
musical muscle
came from a bona fide rock star,
Jack White,
and from the pop-soul sound of a
rising group,
Lake Street Dive.
Rachael Price and Mike Olson
think the new
"Prairie Home" can connect with
young people
eager for a music experience
that goes beyond
Pandora or Spotify.
RACHAEL PRICE, Lake Street Dive:
The more
that formats change, the more
relevant these
sort of older formats become,
because they
have so much value.
MIKE OLSON, Lake Street Dive:
The desire to
have a vinyl record and the
desire to listen
to a variety show and these
kinds of things
goes beyond nostalgia.
And that's a very visceral
experience.
And there's something I think
directly transferable
to a show like this.
JEFFREY BROWN: To the extent
that it can even
be a cool thing?
RACHAEL PRICE: Yes.
It's cool that people used to
sit down in
their homes and listen to the
radio together.
That's a cool thing.
And there's no reason why we
should stop doing
that, even though we have all of
these other
ways to, like, entertain
ourselves.
JEFFREY BROWN: This, Chris Thile
believes
in his bones.
CHRIS THILE: Radio is a podcast
that's happening
right now, live radio.
Like, this is -- our show is a
live show,
so...
JEFFREY BROWN: You like that
aspect, clearly.
CHRIS THILE: I love that.
There is nothing between you and
what's happening,
like the -- and I love the
communal aspect
of that, the idea that we could
be connected
in real time with that many
people.
The radio hasn't lost any of its
relevance
in our lives.
It's still a unique piece of
technology.
JEFFREY BROWN: Lake Wobegon may
be gone, that
is, but a great show, live on
the radio, well,
maybe that lives on.
CHRIS THILE: It is such a
pleasure to spend
a Saturday evening in this
fashion with you
fine people out there in radio
land and here
at the Fitz.
I look forward to many, many
more.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
JEFFREY BROWN: From St. Paul,
Minnesota, I'm
Jeffrey Brown for the "PBS
NewsHour."
JUDY WOODRUFF: Online, you can
watch Chris
Thile perform his first original
song of the
week for the new show about this
autumn season
of leaves falling and campaign
rhetoric flying.
That's at PBS.org/NewsHour.
Later tonight on PBS, an inside
look into
the making of the Broadway hit
"Hamilton."
The 90-minute program
"Hamilton's America"
offers a view of Lin-Manuel
Miranda's creative
process during the years leading
up to the
opening of the musical,
including the time
he spent in Aaron Burr's
bedroom.
LIN-MANUEL MIRANDA,
Composer/Performer: I
write everywhere.
I write on trains.
I write wherever I can.
And, sometimes, a couple of
days, I have written
in Aaron Burr's bedroom.
It's pretty amazing to be in the
space he
was in the later parts of his
life.
Talk about artist in residence,
literally.
This is my "Hamilton" writing
desk.
I sit here or I sit on the
floor.
I don't sit on the colonial
furniture.
There is a song in the show
called "My Shot."
And it's Hamilton's big sort of
I want song.
It's the second in the show.
We see him make his group of
friends, the
Marquis de Lafayette, John
Laurens, Hercules
Mulligan, and Aaron Burr, who is
a colleague
and a friend.
And I'm sort of putting him into
the song,
because these are guys who are
oil and water,
they come up together.
They're revolutionaries
together.
They're soldiers together.
They're lawyers together.
They're elected officials
together.
And, at some point, one shoots
the other.
JUDY WOODRUFF: "Hamilton's
America" airs tonight
on most PBS stations.
Coming up also tonight on PBS,
"Washington
Week" has a full agenda.
The debates are over and it's
the final sprint
to Election Day.
Hillary Clinton is leading in
many battleground
state polls, but Donald Trump
says he may
not accept the results if he
loses.
That's later tonight on your PBS
station.
And on "PBS NewsHour" Saturday:
a glimpse
of the automation that will
likely take jobs
from people in the coming
decades.
And we will be back right here
on Monday,
when we talk with a Syrian
activist whose
views have drastically changed
after five
years of civil war.
That's the "NewsHour" for
tonight.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
Have a great weekend.
Thank you, and good night.